---
layout: post
title: Build It
date: 2012-10-14 12:00:00 -0600
comments: false
sharing: false
categories:
  - motivation
---

I am going to entertain you with an anecdote or two. I was recently talking with
one of my friends about what they should do for their next side project. They
didn't know what to do or where to start. The only real sage advice I could give
them was to:

> Build something. Learn from it, reflect on what you just built and work on
> another project

I have been doing this for so long that it's almost second nature. I hardly
think about the process anymore. I've started so many side projects that have
failed miserably, but I have learned a trick or two that I applied to other
on-going projects.

I've gotten hung up on few of my projects to the point I couldn't solve the
issue at hand. I didn't know what to do and thought I needed to take a break to
work on one of my side projects __Starship Gunner__. I was playing around with
how to organize my background jobs and setting up a decent test suite that I had
an epiphany. For some reason, the problem I was hung up on just made sense.

I remember sitting in my Advanced Programming class and not understanding what
the hell `*` and `&` meant in C. I thought it was all just heresy and voodoo
magic. That same semester I ran my car out of oil and had to pull my engine and
replace parts. Mind you, I had no prior experience with cars. I just started
hacking away at the problem and then got the motor put back into the car.

When that happened, I realized that I could do anything I wanted to. I can build
any application that I wanted to. I could put any parts on my car that I wanted
to. Suffice to say that I could put any bit of code on my applications. And the
`*` and `&` weren't enigmas anymore. I picked up on pointer arithmetic pretty
quickly and things started working out.

**TL; DR. ** I rebuilt the engine on my 1972 BMW. I realized that I can apply
the knowledge I gained from that project to any project I encounter. You should
try this approach, it'll pay off.
